After the sun had sunk into the west, and the moon appeared in the east,
a woman named Khojsteh, wants to leave her home and cheat on her husband, with
the guy she loves. However, her talking parrot ends up stopping her with a story.
Just like many other Persian, Indian, and Egyptian tales, a parrot is often the narrator.
The parrot’s story is about a monarch who had two sons. Whose Father had just
passed away, and the oldest son would become King, his first order was to have
his younger brother killed. Resulting in the younger prince fleeing the kingdom.
The young prince one day came across a pond, where he gazed at a snake
with a frog in its mouth. The prince called out to the snake, giving the
frog a chance to escape the snake’s grip. The prince felt ashamed that he had
taken the food away from the snake, so he gave the snake a piece of
his own flesh. The snake slithered back to his wife, who said that the piece
of flesh was savory and told her husband that he must show his gratitude. Therefore,
the snake turned into his human form, Khaliss, and told the Prince he will
enter into his service. The frog who was saved by the Prince, also felt he
had a debt to pay to the Prince, so he turned into his human form
named Mukhless, and sought to serve the Prince. The three of them from there travelled
into a city, to find a king. Once they came across a King, the Prince
told his highness, that he was capable of killing one hundred men. He requested that
the King pay him one thousand rupees daily for his services, and he would be
willing to do any task or business, the King wished. One day the King was
fishing at a river, and his ring fell off into the water. The King asked
the Prince if he could fetch the ring. So, the Prince asked Mukhless, if he
could turn back into his frog and find the ring. Mukhless jumped into the water,
making wave ripples like a big rock dropping into the water across the whole pond
and started to search. Mukhless had no problem and instantly recovered the ring. The King
was very impressed and started to be very kind to the prince for returning his
ring. Sometime after that, the King’s daughter was bit by a snake and fell ill,
but sadly the physicians’ remedies had no effect. So, the King asked the Prince for
help, however the Prince was feeling distant, and didn’t want to get involved. So Khaliss
took it upon himself to turn back into a snake and suck the poison out
of the princess. Shown in this picture, Khaliss cures the princess like he is giving
the princess a kiss with plenty of tongue. This cured the princess instantly. The King
was so delighted, and ordered that his daughter marry the Prince, who was now the King’s
lieutenant. Both Khaliss and Mukhless decided that it was a good time to leave, now
that they had both served the Prince well; they too wanted to return to their
own habitations. so they left the Prince with his new kingdom and family.